>> Richard Feldman: So,
here's our one and only TODO.
When the user inputs a username,
update it in the model.
We'll look at how the email
input below does this.
Okay, so if we delete this, and
we compare these two fields on the form.
So we've got right here,
Username, Email, and Password.
And each of these has a sort
placeholder in there,
so placeholder Username,
placeholder Email, placeholder Password.
And then they've got a value which
corresponds to the form.username and
form.email, which Elm is gonna fill
that in with whatever value is
currently in the model.
And then we see that email
has onInput EnteredEmail,
but the Username branch does not.
So we're gonna put something in there,
onInput EnteredUsername.
onInput by the way, so
now that we're in solutions mode,
I can actually explain what
some of these things do.
onInput essentially is an event that
fires whenever the user types into
a text box or,
when they edit it in some other way.
For example, you can right-click and hit
cut, you can right-click and hit paste.
There are various ways other than typing
on the keyboard that you can edit
an input field.
onInput is so named because the event
name that actually gets broadcast
from download is called input.
It's like quote input,
that's the name of the event.
This sometimes surprises
people coming from React,
because Raact calls this onChange.
I think the reason they did that was that
they didn't like the name onInput, but
Elm went with what the browser went with.
So it's called onInput because
that's what the browser calls it.
We didn't rename it to onChange.
There's a separate change event that
only fires when it loses focus, but
that's a separate event
in Elm's terminology.
So onInput is a very common thing
that you end up using in practice for
handling things like user input where
you wanna handle keystrokes as well as,
>> Richard Feldman: When they edit, cut,
and edit, paste and all that good stuff.
Okay, onInput is also a function
which expects a function.
So onClick wanted just a message, but
onInput actually wants
a string to message function.
Because it's going to be sending you
the string that the user is typing in,
in other words,
event.target.value in JavaScript parlance.
Now this right here is
not going to compile.
If I go back over here into elm make and
I run this again,
it's gonna say NAMING ERROR,
I cannot find EnteredUsername constructor.
These names seem close though,
EnteredEmail, Username, EnteredPassword.
Well, that's helpful, but unfortunately,
it's not that I mistyped it,
it's just that, that thing does not exist.
So let's go make it exist.
So if I go back up here in my Msg custom
type, we have EnteredEmail which holds
onto a string, we have EnteredPassword
which holds onto a string.
Just gonna go ahead and
add another one for EnteredUsername.
And once again,
we want that to hold on to a string.
So this is sort of a, again,
description of what happened, right?
User entered an email, user entered
a password, user entered a username,
excellent.
All right, so now we're done, right?
No, what is this?
Missing patterns, this case does not
have branches for all possibilities.
So it's got EnteredEmail,
EnteredPassword, SubmittedForm,
this is gonna be the case
inspection on our update.
Missing possibilities
include EnteredUsername.
So we did add it to our message type,
but we forgot to actually implement it.
I would have to crash
if I saw one of those.
Add branches for them.
Okay, fair enough, fair enough.
All right,
how do we add the branch for that?
Well, we've got some nice modeling
here in the form of EnteredEmail and
EnteredPassword.
We can just basically copy and
paste what we did that, and
do the same thing because we want this
fundamentally to work the same way.
So we'll say EnteredUsername,
give the string that's held in there,
the name of username.
And then, we've got this updateForm
helper function, I'm not gonna jump into
the implementation of that, although
it's not really doing a whole lot.
Except to note that, we can just sort of
look at the pattern of this code and say,
okay, it takes a form and
then it's doing a record
update on that form to put whatever
changed value we have into the form.
So it's just storing it.
So form username = username,
everything else is the same.
Recompile, hey, success and
let's see if it actually worked.
So I'm going to register as rtfeldman.
Email is rtfeldman@example.com.
This is not my real email address,
don't send email there.
Password is going to be blah blah.
I don't mind saying that out loud
because this is my local server so
it's not like anyone can hack me.
And let's sign up and
promptly get a server error.
Unfortunately, as much as Elm can
help with problems on the front-end,
it still can't prevent things
from breaking on the back-end.
But at least now we are able to
successfully type something in here,
type in the email, and have it
successfully send the form to the server.
Whereas before it was just
always clearing that thing out.